--- PAGE 1 ---
 
 
 
 
AGENTIC AI - AUTONOMOUS FINANCIAL RESEARCH 
AGENT WITH MULTI-SOURCE SYNTHESIS 
Category: AI Application Technology | Agentic AI Engineer 
Timeline: 15 Days | AI-Accelerated Innovation & Research Project  
Target: Undergraduate / MBA / Engineering Students  
 
TASK: 
To design and build a fully autonomous AI agent that replicates the research workflow of a junior 
financial analyst by receiving a research query, independently formulating a research plan, gathering 
data from multiple sources including SEC EDGAR filings, financial data APIs, earnings call transcripts, 
news feeds, and web search, and synthesizing all findings into a structured, professional investment 
research report - all without step-by-step human guidance. The agent must implement a ReAct or 
Plan-and-Execute reasoning loop, a tool registry with a minimum of 10 tools, a three-layer memory 
system (short-term, long-term via vector database, and episodic), a multi-source synthesis engine capable 
of resolving conflicting data, comprehensive error handling with fallback chains, and an evaluation 
framework covering 20+ quality metrics - validated across 8 progressive research challenges of 
increasing difficulty.  
 
PART A: TRAINING MATERIAL & LEARNING RESOURCES 
PART B: GAMIFIED SIMULATION BUSINESS CONCEPT 
PART C: CASE STUDIES & REAL-WORLD APPLICATIONS 
PART D: 15-DAY PROJECT METHODOLOGY & DELIVERABLES 
PART E: NO-CODE TOOLS & PLATFORMS GUIDE 
PART F: SUBMISSION PROTOCOL 
 
Important Note: 
This Project is designed, developed, and administered solely by Zetheta Algorithms Private Limited ("Zetheta") 
for the purpose of assessing candidates, students, or event participants on behalf of engaging employers, 
institutes, or event organisers. Completion of this Project does not guarantee employment, academic outcomes, 
awards, or any other result - all such decisions remain at the sole discretion of the respective engaging party. 
Zetheta may use AI-assisted tools to evaluate submissions; such outputs are indicative in nature and may be 
inaccurate or incomplete. By participating, you consent to your performance data, scores, and submissions 
being shared with relevant engaging parties for assessment and decision-making purposes. 
 
 
 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 1 
 


--- PAGE 2 ---
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
This project positions students as Agentic AI Engineers at a fictional quantitative research firm - 
QuantumEdge Research - requiring them to master the convergence of large language model 
reasoning, financial data engineering, and autonomous system design. Unlike traditional AI projects 
that operate within a single domain, this project demands simultaneous fluency in LLM orchestration, 
RAG pipeline architecture, and vector database design on one side, and SEC regulatory filings, 
earnings analysis, financial ratio computation, and investment research methodology on the other. 
The core challenge students must solve: How can an AI system replace the junior analyst workflow - 
receiving a research query, formulating a plan, gathering data from disparate sources, resolving 
conflicting information, and producing a professional-grade investment research report - entirely 
without step-by-step human guidance? The answer lies in a purpose-built autonomous agent 
architecture that orchestrates a registry of 10+ tools through a ReAct or Plan-and-Execute reasoning 
loop, grounds every output in retrieved source documents through a multi-stage RAG pipeline, and 
implements a three-layer memory system combining short-term context management, long-term 
vector storage, and episodic strategy memory. 
Students will build ARA-1 - an Autonomous Research Agent validated across eight progressive 
research challenges of increasing complexity, from a basic company profile to a full investment report 
under simulated tool failures. The agent must handle ambiguous queries, resolve contradictory data 
across sources using a reliability hierarchy, recover gracefully from API failures through fallback 
chains, and score above 70% tool efficiency and below 2% hallucination rate - benchmarked against 
human analyst research reports. 
The global investment research market is valued at over $8 billion annually, while financial 
institutions spend an estimated $50+ billion per year on junior analyst labour performing largely 
repeatable, data-intensive research tasks. Yet the vast majority of this workflow remains manual, slow, 
and prone to human error. This project closes this intelligence gap - equipping students to build the 
next generation of autonomous research infrastructure, with architecture patterns directly applicable to 
hedge funds, investment banks, and financial data platforms seeking to deploy production-grade 
agentic AI systems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 2 
 


--- PAGE 3 ---
 
 
 
 
PART A: TRAINING MATERIAL & LEARNING RESOURCES 
SECTION A1: INTRODUCTION TO AGENTIC AI SYSTEMS 
A1.1 What Is An AI Agent? 
Definition And Core Concept: 
An AI agent is a software system that perceives its environment through sensors or data inputs, 
reasons about that information using one or more large language models (LLMs), and takes 
autonomous action through tool invocation to achieve a specified goal. Unlike traditional chatbots that 
respond to single prompts in isolation, an agent maintains state across multiple reasoning steps, 
selects tools dynamically based on intermediate results, and self-corrects when it detects errors or 
inconsistencies in its output. 
In the context of financial research, an AI agent replaces or augments the junior analyst workflow. A 
human junior analyst at an investment bank typically receives a research assignment, formulates a 
research plan, gathers data from multiple sources (Bloomberg terminal, SEC EDGAR filings, earnings 
call transcripts, industry reports, news feeds), synthesizes findings, identifies patterns and anomalies, 
and produces a structured research report. An agentic AI system mirrors each of these steps 
programmatically, with the LLM serving as the reasoning engine that decides what information to 
gather next and how to interpret it. 
 
Key Characteristics Of AI Agents: 
●​ Autonomy: The agent operates without step-by-step human guidance once given an initial goal 
or query. It decides which tools to invoke, in what order, and how to interpret results. 
●​ Reactivity: The agent responds to changes in its environment. If a tool returns unexpected 
results, the agent adjusts its plan rather than failing silently. 
●​ Proactivity: The agent anticipates information needs. If researching a pharmaceutical 
company, it proactively checks FDA approval databases even if not explicitly instructed. 
●​ Social ability: In multi-agent architectures, agents communicate with other agents, delegate 
sub-tasks, and aggregate findings from specialist agents. 
●​ Memory: The agent maintains both short-term memory (current research session context) and 
long-term memory (accumulated knowledge from previous research tasks stored in a vector 
database). 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 3 
 


--- PAGE 4 ---
 
 
 
 
A1.2 The Evolution From Chatbots To Agents 
Generation 1: Rule-Based Systems (Pre-2020): 
Early financial AI systems were deterministic. They followed pre-programmed decision trees: if a 
stock price dropped more than 5% in a day, generate an alert. If a company filed a 10-K with a going 
concern opinion, flag it as high risk. These systems were brittle because they could not handle 
scenarios outside their programmed rules. A novel type of risk disclosure in an SEC filing, for 
example, would pass through undetected because no rule existed to catch it. 
 
Generation 2: Llm-Powered Chatbots (2022-2023): 
The release of GPT-3.5 and GPT-4 enabled natural language interaction with financial data. Users 
could ask questions like 'What were Apple's revenue drivers in Q3 2023?' and receive coherent 
answers. However, these systems had critical limitations: they relied entirely on training data (no 
real-time information), they could not verify their own outputs against authoritative sources, and they 
hallucinated confidently when they lacked information. A chatbot might fabricate a quarterly revenue 
figure that sounded plausible but was entirely wrong. 
 
Generation 3: Agentic AI Systems (2024-Present): 
Agentic systems address these limitations by giving the LLM the ability to use tools. Instead of 
guessing Apple's Q3 revenue, the agent calls a financial data API to retrieve the exact figure. Instead 
of relying on training data for recent news, the agent performs a web search. The LLM's role shifts 
from being the source of information to being the reasoning engine that orchestrates information 
retrieval and synthesis. This is the paradigm you will build in this project. 
 
A1.3 The React Framework 
Reasoning And Acting: 
The ReAct (Reasoning + Acting) framework, introduced by Yao et al. (2022), is the foundational 
paradigm for most agentic AI systems. In ReAct, the agent alternates between two modes: 
1.​ Thought: The agent reasons about the current state of its research, what information it has 
gathered so far, what information is missing, and what tool to invoke next. This reasoning step 
is generated by the LLM and is visible in the agent's trace log. 
2.​ Action: Based on its reasoning, the agent selects and invokes a tool with specific parameters. 
For example: Action: search_sec_filings(ticker='AAPL', filing_type='10-K', year=2023). 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 4 
 


--- PAGE 5 ---
 
 
 
 
Observation: The tool returns results, which the agent incorporates into its context. The agent then 
generates another Thought step to interpret the results and decide what to do next. 
 
This Thought-Action-Observation loop continues until the agent determines it has gathered sufficient 
information to produce its final output, or until it reaches a maximum iteration limit (a safety 
mechanism to prevent infinite loops). 
 
React Example In Financial Research: 
User Query: 'Prepare a risk assessment for Tesla Inc.' 
 
Thought 1: I need to assess Tesla's risk profile. I should start by 
  retrieving their most recent 10-K filing to understand their 
  disclosed risk factors. 
Action 1: search_sec_filings(ticker='TSLA', filing_type='10-K', 
  year=2024) 
Observation 1: [Returns 10-K filing with 42 risk factors listed] 
 
Thought 2: I have the disclosed risk factors. Now I need recent 
  news to identify emerging risks not yet captured in filings. 
Action 2: web_search('Tesla risks challenges 2024 2025') 
Observation 2: [Returns 10 news articles about supply chain, 
  regulatory, and competition risks] 
 
Thought 3: I should also check analyst sentiment from recent 
  earnings calls to see how management addresses these risks. 
Action 3: get_earnings_transcript(ticker='TSLA', quarter='Q3', 
  year=2024) 
Observation 3: [Returns transcript with Q&A section] 
 
Thought 4: I now have three data sources. Let me cross-reference 
  the disclosed risks with news and management commentary to 
  produce a comprehensive risk assessment. 
Action 4: generate_report(template='risk_assessment', 
  sources=[filing, news, transcript]) 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 5 
 


