--- PAGE 6 ---
 
 
 
 
A1.4 Plan-And-Execute Architecture 
Separating Planning From Execution: 
An alternative to ReAct is the Plan-and-Execute pattern, where the agent first creates a complete 
research plan before taking any actions. This approach is often more efficient for complex, multi-step 
research tasks because it reduces redundant tool calls and provides a clear roadmap that can be 
reviewed before execution begins. 
In Plan-and-Execute, the Planner LLM generates a structured plan with numbered steps, expected 
outputs for each step, and dependencies between steps. The Executor then works through the plan step 
by step, updating the plan if intermediate results reveal the need for additional research or if a planned 
step becomes unnecessary. 
 
Plan-And-Execute Example: 
User Query: 'Compare the competitive positions of JPMorgan, 
  Goldman Sachs, and Morgan Stanley in investment banking.' 
 
PLAN: 
Step 1: Retrieve latest 10-K filings for JPM, GS, MS 
Step 2: Extract revenue breakdown by business segment 
Step 3: Get league table rankings for M&A and ECM 
Step 4: Analyze earnings call transcripts for strategic priorities 
Step 5: Search news for recent deals and market share shifts 
Step 6: Calculate key financial ratios (ROE, efficiency ratio) 
Step 7: Synthesize into comparative analysis report 
 
The advantage of this approach is visibility: a human reviewer can inspect the plan before execution 
and suggest modifications. The disadvantage is rigidity: if Step 1 reveals that Morgan Stanley has 
restructured its segments, the original plan may need significant revision. 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 6 
 


--- PAGE 7 ---
 
 
 
 
SECTION A2: TOOL ORCHESTRATION AND REGISTRY DESIGN 
A2.1 What Is A Tool In An Agentic System? 
Tool Definition: 
In the agentic AI paradigm, a 'tool' is any external capability that the agent can invoke to interact with 
the world beyond its own language model. Tools bridge the gap between the LLM's reasoning ability 
and the real-world data and systems it needs to access. Each tool is defined by a name, a description 
(which the LLM reads to decide when to use it), an input schema (specifying required and optional 
parameters with their types), and an output schema (defining the structure of returned data). 
The quality of tool definitions directly impacts agent performance. A vaguely described tool will be 
invoked inappropriately; an overly restrictive description will cause the agent to miss opportunities to 
use it. Writing effective tool descriptions is itself a form of prompt engineering. 
 
A2.2 The Tool Registry 
Registry Architecture: 
The tool registry is the central catalog of all tools available to the agent. It serves three purposes: (1) it 
provides the LLM with the metadata it needs to select appropriate tools during the Thought step, (2) it 
manages the execution layer that routes tool calls to the correct API endpoints or functions, and (3) it 
handles authentication, rate limiting, error handling, and result caching. 
Your agent must implement a minimum of 10 tools. Below is the reference tool registry with detailed 
specifications for each tool: 
 
Tool Name 
Description 
Input Schema 
Output 
sec_filing_search 
Retrieves SEC filings 
(10-K, 10-Q, 8-K, DEF 
14A) from EDGAR for 
a given company ticker 
and filing type 
ticker: str, 
filing_type: str, year: 
int (optional) 
Filing text, filing 
date, accession 
number 
web_search 
Performs web search for 
current news, analysis, 
and commentary about a 
company or financial 
topic 
query: str, 
num_results: int 
(default 10), 
date_range: str 
(optional) 
List of URL, title, 
snippet tuples 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 7 
 


--- PAGE 8 ---
 
 
 
 
earnings_transcript Retrieves earnings call 
transcript for a specific 
company, quarter, and 
year 
ticker: str, quarter: str 
(Q1-Q4), year: int 
Full transcript text 
with speaker labels 
financial_data_api 
Retrieves structured 
financial data including 
income statement, 
balance sheet, cash 
flow, and key ratios 
ticker: str, 
statement_type: str, 
period: str 
(annual/quarterly), 
years: int 
JSON of financial 
statement data 
news_sentiment 
Analyzes sentiment of 
recent news articles 
about a company or 
topic using NLP 
query: str, 
num_articles: int, 
lookback_days: int 
Sentiment scores, 
article summaries, 
overall sentiment 
vector_db_search 
Searches the agent's 
long-term memory 
(vector database) for 
previously researched 
information 
query: str, top_k: int, 
filter: dict (optional) 
Relevant document 
chunks with 
similarity scores 
vector_db_store 
Stores new research 
findings in the agent's 
long-term memory for 
future retrieval 
content: str, 
metadata: dict 
(ticker, date, 
source_type) 
Storage confirmation 
with document ID 
company_profile 
Retrieves basic 
company information 
including sector, 
industry, market cap, 
executives, and 
description 
ticker: str 
Structured company 
profile JSON 
peer_comparison 
Identifies peer 
companies and retrieves 
comparative financial 
metrics 
 
ticker: str, 
num_peers: int, 
metrics: list[str] 
Peer comparison 
matrix with rankings 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 8 
 


--- PAGE 9 ---
 
 
 
 
report_generator 
Formats researched data 
into a structured 
investment research 
report following a 
specified template 
template: str, 
sections: dict, 
sources: list 
Formatted research 
report in markdown 
fact_checker 
Cross-references a 
specific claim against 
multiple authoritative 
sources to verify 
accuracy 
claim: str, sources: 
list[str] (optional) 
Verification status, 
supporting evidence, 
confidence score 
calculation_engine 
Performs financial 
calculations including 
DCF, ratios, growth 
rates, and statistical 
analysis 
calculation_type: str, 
inputs: dict 
Calculation result 
with intermediate 
steps 
 
A2.3 Tool Selection Logic 
How The Agent Chooses Tools: 
The LLM selects tools based on a combination of the tool descriptions in the registry and the current 
state of the research task. Tool selection is implemented through the system prompt, which includes 
the full tool registry with descriptions. When the LLM generates a Thought step, it evaluates which 
tool would most efficiently provide the information it needs next. 
Effective tool selection requires the agent to consider: (1) what information is already available in its 
current context, (2) what information is still missing, (3) which tool is most likely to provide that 
information, (4) whether the tool has rate limits or cost implications that should influence the order of 
operations, and (5) whether the information could be obtained from the agent's long-term memory 
(vector database) rather than making an external API call. 
 
Tool Selection Anti-Patterns: 
●​ Redundant calls: Invoking web_search for information already available in a retrieved SEC 
filing. The agent should check existing context before making new tool calls. 
●​ Wrong granularity: Using financial_data_api to get a single ratio when a full financial 
statement retrieval would provide multiple needed data points in one call. 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 9 
 


--- PAGE 10 ---
 
 
 
 
●​ Missing verification: Accepting a single source's data without cross-referencing. The agent 
should invoke fact_checker for critical numerical claims. 
●​ Ignoring memory: Performing a full research cycle for a company the agent has already 
researched recently. The vector_db_search tool should be checked first. 
●​ Over-reliance on web search: Using web_search for structured data that is more accurately 
available from financial_data_api or sec_filing_search. 
 
A2.4 Tool Schema Design Principles 
Writing Effective Tool Schemas: 
Each tool schema must follow the OpenAI function calling specification (which is also used by 
Anthropic's Claude tool use). The schema is a JSON object with the following required fields: name 
(string, no spaces, descriptive), description (string, 1-3 sentences explaining when and why to use this 
tool), parameters (JSON Schema object defining input types, required fields, and defaults). 
 
Example: Well-Designed Tool Schema: 
 
{ 
  "name": "sec_filing_search", 
  "description": "Search and retrieve SEC EDGAR filings for a 
    publicly traded US company. Use this tool when you need 
    official regulatory disclosures including annual reports 
    (10-K), quarterly reports (10-Q), material event reports 
    (8-K), or proxy statements (DEF 14A). Returns the full 
    text of the filing.", 
  "parameters": { 
    "type": "object", 
    "properties": { 
      "ticker": { 
        "type": "string", 
        "description": "Stock ticker symbol (e.g., AAPL, MSFT)" 
      }, 
      "filing_type": { 
        "type": "string", 
        "enum": ["10-K", "10-Q", "8-K", "DEF 14A"], 
        "description": "Type of SEC filing to retrieve" 
      }, 
      "year": { 
        "type": "integer", 
        "description": "Filing year (defaults to most recent)" 
      } 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 10 
 


