--- PAGE 11 ---
 
 
 
 
    }, 
    "required": ["ticker", "filing_type"] 
  } 
} 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 11 
 


--- PAGE 12 ---
 
 
 
 
SECTION A3: MEMORY ARCHITECTURE FOR RESEARCH AGENTS 
A3.1 Why Agents Need Memory 
The Memory Imperative: 
An AI agent without memory is like a junior analyst with amnesia: it produces the same research from 
scratch every time, cannot learn from past mistakes, and cannot build upon previous findings. 
Memory transforms an agent from a stateless tool executor into a knowledge-accumulating research 
system that improves over time. 
In financial research, memory is particularly critical because research is cumulative. An analyst 
covering the technology sector builds an increasingly deep understanding of competitive dynamics, 
management quality, and industry trends over months and years. Without memory, the agent would 
need to re-discover these patterns every time it receives a new query. 
 
A3.2 Three Types Of Agent Memory 
Short-Term Memory (Working Memory): 
Short-term memory is the agent's context window during a single research session. It contains the 
original user query, all Thought-Action-Observation traces generated so far, and any intermediate 
results. This memory is managed by the LLM's context window and is discarded when the session 
ends. The primary challenge with short-term memory is context window limitations: a single research 
session may generate more text than the LLM can hold in its context. Strategies for managing this 
include summarization of earlier steps, selective retention of key findings, and chunking of large tool 
outputs. 
 
Long-Term Memory (Semantic Memory): 
Long-term memory persists across research sessions and is typically implemented using a vector 
database such as Pinecone, Weaviate, Chroma, or Qdrant. When the agent completes a research task, 
key findings are embedded using a text embedding model (such as OpenAI's text-embedding-3-small 
or Cohere's embed-v3) and stored in the vector database with metadata including the company ticker, 
research date, source type, and confidence level. Before starting a new research task, the agent queries 
this memory to retrieve relevant past findings. 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 12 
 


--- PAGE 13 ---
 
 
 
 
Episodic Memory (Experience Memory): 
Episodic memory records the agent's past experiences at the process level: which research strategies 
worked well, which tools produced the best results for specific types of queries, which error patterns 
the agent encountered, and how it recovered. This memory enables the agent to improve its planning 
over time. For example, if the agent has previously learned that earnings call transcripts are the best 
source for understanding management's forward-looking strategy, it will prioritize transcript retrieval 
earlier in its research plan for similar future queries. 
 
A3.3 Vector Database Design For Financial Research 
Schema Design: 
The vector database schema must accommodate the diverse types of financial information the agent 
stores. Each record in the database should contain the following fields: 
Field 
Type 
Description 
Example 
id 
string 
Unique identifier for the 
record 
tsla-10k-2024-risk-factors-001 
content 
string 
The text content to be 
embedded 
Tesla faces supply chain risks... 
embedding 
vector 
Dense vector 
representation of content 
[0.012, -0.045, 0.089, ...] 
ticker 
string 
Company ticker symbol 
TSLA 
source_type 
string 
Type of source document 
10-K, earnings_call, news, 
analysis 
date 
datetime 
Date of the source 
information 
2024-10-15T00:00:00Z 
confidence 
float 
Agent's confidence in the 
information (0-1) 
0.92 
researcher_session 
string 
Session ID that produced 
this record 
session-2024-10-15-001 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 13 
 


--- PAGE 14 ---
 
 
 
 
verified 
boolean 
Whether fact-checked 
against multiple sources 
true 
 
Chunking Strategy: 
Financial documents must be intelligently chunked before embedding. Naive chunking (splitting at 
fixed character counts) destroys the semantic coherence of financial information. Instead, use 
semantic chunking that respects document structure: 
●​ SEC Filings: Chunk by section (Risk Factors, MD&A, Financial Statements) and by 
individual risk factor or discussion topic within sections. 
●​ Earnings Transcripts: Chunk by speaker turn, with each Q&A pair kept as a single chunk to 
preserve the context of analyst questions and management responses. 
●​ News Articles: Chunk by paragraph, with the headline and first paragraph always included as 
context in every chunk from the same article. 
●​ Financial Statements: Store as structured JSON rather than embedding as text. Use metadata 
filtering rather than semantic search for numerical data retrieval. 
 
 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 14 
 


--- PAGE 15 ---
 
 
 
 
SECTION A4: ERROR HANDLING AND GRACEFUL DEGRADATION 
A4.1 Why Error Handling Is Critical In Financial AI 
The Cost Of Failure: 
In financial research, errors can have significant real-world consequences. An agent that produces a 
research report containing incorrect data, fabricated citations, or flawed analysis could lead to poor 
investment decisions. Unlike a chatbot conversation where an error is merely inconvenient, a flawed 
financial research report could result in material financial losses. Therefore, error handling in a 
financial research agent is not an afterthought but a core architectural requirement. 
 
A4.2 Categories Of Agent Errors 
Tool Execution Errors: 
●​ API unavailability: The SEC EDGAR API is down for maintenance, the financial data 
provider is experiencing an outage, or the web search service returns HTTP 503. 
●​ Rate limiting: The agent exceeds the allowed number of API calls per minute or per day. 
Financial data APIs typically have strict rate limits. 
●​ Authentication failures: API keys have expired, been revoked, or are missing from the 
environment configuration. 
●​ Malformed responses: A tool returns data in an unexpected format, with missing fields, or 
with corrupted content. 
●​ Timeout: A tool call takes longer than the configured timeout period, potentially due to large 
document retrieval or slow network conditions. 
 
Reasoning Errors: 
●​ Hallucination: The LLM generates financial data, company names, or market events that do 
not exist. This is the most dangerous error type in financial research. 
●​ Logical inconsistency: The agent's reasoning contradicts information it has already gathered. 
For example, stating a company is profitable while its retrieved financial statements show net 
losses. 
●​ Premature conclusion: The agent generates its final report before gathering sufficient 
information, typically because it misinterprets partial results as complete. 
●​ Circular reasoning: The agent repeatedly invokes the same tools with the same parameters, 
expecting different results. 
Strictly Private and Confidential - Not for Circulation                                                                                   Page number: 15 
 


